book/src/inst/from.md, before:

# Instruction: `FROM`

```nginx
FROM [<schema>://]<from-source>
```

The `FROM` instruction bases the current layer on top of some the specified layer.

Unlike Docker, multiple types of `from-source` are supported:

| Type   | Schema      | Example                       |
|--------|-------------|-------------------------------|
| Raptor | `<none>`    | `FROM library.base`           |
| Docker | `docker://` | `FROM docker://debian:trixie` |

## Raptor sources

When no schema is specified, the `from-source` is assumed to be the [module
name](/module-name.md) of another raptor layer.

~~~admonish tip
This will be familiar to docker users. For example..
```docker
# Dockerfile
FROM base
```
..will depend on the docker image `base`
~~~

However, unlike docker files, raptor can point to raptor files in other
directories, or even other packages. See [module names](/module-name.md) for an
overview.

### Examples

```raptor
# This will depend on `base.rapt`
FROM base
```

```raptor
# This will depend on `library/debian.rapt`
FROM library.debian
```

## Docker sources

To use a docker image as the basis for a raptor layer, specify the name of the
docker image, prefixed with `docker://`, e.g:

```raptor
FROM docker://debian:trixie
```

~~~admonish tip
In general, `docker pull <NAME>` becomes `FROM docker://<NAME>`
~~~

There are multiple (optional) parts in a *docker reference*, which has a
surprisingly intricate syntax.

Raptor supports the entire grammar for docker references, so anything that
`docker pull` will accept, should work with `FROM docker://` in raptor.

Commit message:

* Wrap all instruction summaries in admonish summary, and clean up a few rough edges

book/src/inst/from.md, after:

# Instruction: `FROM`

~~~admonish summary
```nginx
FROM [<schema>://]<from-source>
```
~~~

The `FROM` instruction bases the current layer on top of some the specified layer.

This instruction is *not* required. If no `FROM` instruction is used, the target
is building from an empty base, with no dependencies.

Multiple `FROM` instructions are **not supported**.

## From sources

Raptor supports multiple options for `from-source`:

| Type   | Schema      | Example                       |
|--------|-------------|-------------------------------|
| Raptor | `<none>`    | `FROM library.base`           |
| Docker | `docker://` | `FROM docker://debian:trixie` |

### Raptor sources

When no schema is specified, the `from-source` is assumed to be the [module
name](/module-name.md) of another raptor layer.

~~~admonish tip
This will be familiar to docker users. For example..
```docker
# Dockerfile
FROM base
```
..will depend on the docker image `base`
~~~

However, unlike docker files, raptor can point to raptor files in other
directories, or even other packages. See [module names](/module-name.md) for an
overview.

#### Examples

```raptor
# This will depend on `base.rapt`
FROM base
```

```raptor
# This will depend on `library/debian.rapt`
FROM library.debian
```

### Docker sources

To use a docker image as the basis for a raptor layer, specify the name of the
docker image, prefixed with `docker://`, e.g:

```raptor
FROM docker://debian:trixie
```

~~~admonish tip
In general, `docker pull <NAME>` becomes `FROM docker://<NAME>`
~~~

There are multiple (optional) parts in a *docker reference*, which has a
surprisingly intricate syntax.

Raptor supports the entire grammar for docker references, so anything that
`docker pull` will accept, should work with `FROM docker://` in raptor.
