book/src/inst/include.md, before:

# Instruction `INCLUDE`

```raptor
INCLUDE <filename> [...<key>=<value>]
```

The `INCLUDE` instruction calls on another Raptor file (`.rinc`) to be
executed. When `INCLUDE`ing files, any number of local variables can be passed
to the included target.

For example, if we have previously made the file `lib/install-utils` that
installs some useful programs, we can use that file in build targets:

```raptor
INCLUDE lib.install-base-utils
```

We can also make the component accept parameters, to make powerful, flexible
components:

```raptor
# hypothetical library function to update "/etc/hostname"
INCLUDE lib.set-hostname hostname="server1"
```

In the above example, we set the hostname of a server using an included
component.

~~~admonish tip
Since all values have to be specified as `key=value`, we might end up passing
variables through several raptor files. This often ends up looking like this in
the middle:
```raptor
INCLUDE setup-thing username=username password=password
```
This is of course valid, but a shorter syntax exists for this case:
```raptor
INCLUDE setup-thing username password
```
In other words, an include parameter `name=name` can always be shortened to `name`.
~~~

Commit message:

* Wrap all instruction summaries in admonish summary, and clean up a few rough edges

book/src/inst/include.md, after:

# Instruction `INCLUDE`

~~~admonish summary
```raptor
INCLUDE <module-name> [...<key>=<value>]
```
~~~

```admonish tip
See the section on [module names](/module-name.md).
```

The `INCLUDE` instruction points to a Raptor include file (`.rinc`) to be
executed. When using `INCLUDE`, any number of local variables can be passed
to the included target.

For example, if we have previously made the file `lib/install-utils.rinc` that
installs some useful programs, we can use that file in build targets:

```raptor
# Note: We use module name notation when including files
#
# The file is called `lib/install-utils.rinc`, which makes
#    the module name `lib.install-utils`
INCLUDE lib.install-utils
```

We can also make the component accept parameters, to make powerful, flexible
components:

```raptor
# hypothetical library function to update "/etc/hostname"
INCLUDE lib.set-hostname hostname="server1"
```

In the above example, we set the hostname of a server using an included
component.

~~~admonish tip
Since all values have to be specified as `key=value`, we might end up passing
variables through several raptor files. This often ends up looking like this in
the middle:
```raptor
INCLUDE setup-thing username=username password=password
```
This is of course valid, but a shorter syntax exists for this case:
```raptor
INCLUDE setup-thing username password
```
In other words, an include parameter `name=name` can always be shortened to `name`.
~~~
