book/src/inst/mount.md, before:

# Instruction `MOUNT`

~~~admonish summary
```raptor
MOUNT [--<mount-type>] <name> <destination>
```
~~~

```admonish important title="Build-time instruction"
The `MOUNT` instructions only affects *running* a container, not *building* a
container.
```

By using `MOUNT`, targets can specify certain resources (files, directories,
layers, etc) that should be made available when running the container.

Raptor mounts are identified by a `name`, which is used when running the
container, to declare what to mount.

When running a raptor container, a mount input is specified with the `-M <name>
<source>` command line option.

~~~admonish tip
The syntax `-M <input> <source>` can be a bit unwieldy.

Since certain mount names are very common, they have a shorter syntax available:

| Name   | Long form         | Short form |
|--------|-------------------|------------|
| Input  | `-M input <foo>`  | `-I <foo>` |
| Output | `-M output <foo>` | `-O <foo>` |
| Cache  | `-M cache <foo>`  | `-C <foo>` |
~~~

For example, suppose we have a simple container (`disk-usage.rapt`) that just
calculates the disk space used by a mount:

```raptor
FROM docker://debian:trixie

# Declare the mount "input", and place it at /input
MOUNT input /input

# Calculate the disk space used in /input
CMD "du -sh /input"
```

If we try to run this, we will get an error message:

```sh
$ sudo raptor run disk-usage
[*] Completed [675DE2C3A4D8CD82] index.docker.io-library-debian-trixie
[*] Completed [A24E97B01374CFEF] disk-usage
[E] Raptor failed: Required mount [input] not specified
```

As we can see, the container builds correctly, but fails because the `input`
mount is not specified.

To fix this, we specify the input mount:

```sh
sudo raptor run -I /tmp disk-usage
[*] Completed [675DE2C3A4D8CD82] index.docker.io-library-debian-trixie
[*] Completed [4BDD0649E00CA728] disk-usage
128M    /input
```

We could have specified `-I /tmp` as `-M input /tmp`, but the short form usually
makes the command easier to follow.

Commit message:

+ Add section detailing every MOUNT type, and add link to that from the MOUNT reference

book/src/inst/mount.md, after:

# Instruction `MOUNT`

~~~admonish summary
```raptor
MOUNT [--<mount-type>] <name> <destination>
```
~~~

```admonish important title="Build-time instruction"
The `MOUNT` instructions only affects *running* a container, not *building* a
container.
```

```admonish tip
See the section on [mount types](/mount-types.md).
```

By using `MOUNT`, targets can specify certain resources (files, directories,
layers, etc) that should be made available when running the container.

Raptor mounts are identified by a `name`, which is used when running the
container, to declare what to mount.

When running a raptor container, a mount input is specified with the `-M <name>
<source>` command line option.

~~~admonish tip
The syntax `-M <input> <source>` can be a bit unwieldy.

Since certain mount names are very common, they have a shorter syntax available:

| Name   | Long form         | Short form |
|--------|-------------------|------------|
| Input  | `-M input <foo>`  | `-I <foo>` |
| Output | `-M output <foo>` | `-O <foo>` |
| Cache  | `-M cache <foo>`  | `-C <foo>` |
~~~

For example, suppose we have a simple container (`disk-usage.rapt`) that just
calculates the disk space used by a mount:

```raptor
FROM docker://debian:trixie

# Declare the mount "input", and place it at /input
MOUNT input /input

# Calculate the disk space used in /input
CMD "du -sh /input"
```

If we try to run this, we will get an error message:

```sh
$ sudo raptor run disk-usage
[*] Completed [675DE2C3A4D8CD82] index.docker.io-library-debian-trixie
[*] Completed [A24E97B01374CFEF] disk-usage
[E] Raptor failed: Required mount [input] not specified
```

As we can see, the container builds correctly, but fails because the `input`
mount is not specified.

To fix this, we specify the input mount:

```sh
sudo raptor run disk-usage -I /tmp
[*] Completed [675DE2C3A4D8CD82] index.docker.io-library-debian-trixie
[*] Completed [4BDD0649E00CA728] disk-usage
128M    /input
```

We could have specified `-I /tmp` as `-M input /tmp`, but the short form usually
makes the command easier to follow.

## Mount type

The example have just looked will probably feel familiar to Docker users, since
it is very similar to *docker volumes*, which are also bind mounts from the host
to the container namespace.

However, Raptor mounts are more advanced than that.

For example, in order to build a Debian liveboot iso, we need to provide the
Debian `live-boot` scripts with a set of `squashfs` files, generated
from the individual layers of one or more raptor targets.

Docker does not easily provide access to container layers, as it is seen as more
of an implementation detail.

In contrast, Raptor considers layers a first-class object, and makes them
available using the `MOUNT` instruction.

To learn more about different mount types, please see the [mount types](/mount-types.md) section.
